Create-session-10 (#29)
open-education-hub/web-security: end-to-end-attack/index.md

---
linkTitle: 10. End-to-End Attack
type: docs
weight: 10
---
# Introduction

TODO

# How to find targets in the wild
## Find targets using shodan.io

> As presented to you in another session, **[shodan.io](https://www.shodan.io/dashboard)** is a powerful search engine that can help you to find vulnerable targets on the internet, using different search queries. A search query can contain, for example, the name of the product like a simple ```weblogic``` which represents the name of the WebLogic server developed by Oracle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As presented to you in another session, **[shodan.io](https://www.shodan.io/dashboard)** is a powerful search engine that can help you to find vulnerable targets on the internet, using different search queries.
A search query can contain, for example, the name of the product like a simple ```weblogic``` which represents the name of the WebLogic server developed by Oracle.
```

<img src="./assets/shodan_finding_1-2.png" width=800 height=400>

> But we can also use more specific queries to find targets that interest us. You can also specify the port numbers inside the shodan query, using the ```port:``` filter. Knowing that [WSO2](https://wso2.com) the default HTTP and HTTPS ports of a WSO2 product are 9763 and 9443 respectively, we can try to use the ```WSO2 port:9443,9763``` query, you can find some [WSO2](https://wso2.com) targets across the internet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But we can also use more specific queries to find targets that interest us.
You can also specify the port numbers inside the shodan query, using the ```port:``` filter.
Knowing that for [WSO2](https://wso2.com) the default HTTP and HTTPS ports of a WSO2 product are 9763 and 9443 respectively, we can try to use the ```WSO2 port:9443,9763``` query, you can find some [WSO2](https://wso2.com) targets across the internet.
```

<img src="./assets/shodan_finding_2-2.png" width=800 height=400>

> Another way to find vulnerable targets is the **favicon hash**. Favicon is the shortand for favourite icon. It is used as a shortcut to other webpages. Browsers that use these icons usually display them in the address bar, as well as in the history.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another way to find vulnerable targets is the **favicon hash**.
Favicon is the shorthand for the favorite icon.
It is used as a shortcut to other web pages.
Browsers that use these icons usually display them in the address bar, as well as in the history.
```

<img src="./assets/favicon.png" width=474 height=142>

> You can find the favicon hash of an website, using the [FaviconHash website](https://faviconhash.com). For example, let's find out the favicon hash of the github.com website.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find the favicon hash of a website, using the [FaviconHash website](https://faviconhash.com).
For example, let's find out the favicon hash of the github.com website.
```

<img src="./assets/favicon_website.png" width=700 height=200>

Now, we can use the ```http.favicon.hash:1848946384``` filter to find some GitHub based web-sites.

<img src="./assets/github_favicon.png" width=900 height=450>

> As you can see, we now have more than 700 results of potential vulnerable applications. Note that in order to use Shodan filters (http.favicon.hash) you must be logged in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you can see, we now have more than 700 results of potentially vulnerable applications.
Note that in order to use Shodan filters (http.favicon.hash) you must be logged in.
```

## Find targets using Google Dorks

> Google Dorks involves using advanced operators in the Google search engine to locate specific errors of text within search results. Common cases of using Google Dorks are finding specific versions of vulnerable Web applications. Taking the previous example, we want to find some vulnerable versions of the WSO2 product after the release of the [CVE-2022-29464](https://www.trendmicro.com/en_us/research/22/e/patch-your-wso2-cve-2022-29464-exploited-to-install-linux-compatible-cobalt-strike-beacons-other-malware.html) so we will use Google Dorks, knowing the vulnerable endpoints of the vulnerable product.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Google Dorks involves using advanced operators in the Google search engine to locate specific errors of text within search results.
Common cases of using Google Dorks are finding specific versions of vulnerable Web applications.
Taking the previous example, we want to find some vulnerable versions of the WSO2 product after the release of the [CVE-2022-29464](https://www.trendmicro.com/en_us/research/22/e/patch-your-wso2-cve-2022-29464-exploited-to-install-linux-compatible-cobalt-strike-beacons-other-malware.html) so we will use Google Dorks, knowing the vulnerable endpoints of the vulnerable product.
```

```
inurl:"/carbon/admin/login.jsp"
inurl:"/authenticationendpoint/login.do"
inurl:"devportal/apis"
intitle:"API Publisher- Login"
intitle:"WSO2 Management Console"
```

<img src="./assets/google_dorks.png" width=800 height=500>

## Use automation to find vulnerable targets with Nuclei

> [Nuclei](https://github.com/projectdiscovery/nuclei) is an important open-source tool used to find vulnerable targets, based on flexible templates written in yaml, which offers to scan for multiple protocols (HTTP, TCP, DNS, ...). The templates can be found inside the [nuclei-templates](https://github.com/projectdiscovery/nuclei-templates/tree/master/cves) github page, sorted by the CVE release year.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Nuclei](https://github.com/projectdiscovery/nuclei) is an important open-source tool used to find vulnerable targets, based on flexible templates written in yaml, which offers to scan for multiple protocols (HTTP, TCP, DNS, ...).
The templates can be found inside the [nuclei-templates](https://github.com/projectdiscovery/nuclei-templates/tree/master/cves) github page, sorted by the CVE release year.
```

### Download shodan findings

#### Manually download data

> Taking the same previous CVE-2022-29464 as example, we can use our shodan.io results to find if the targets found in the wild are vulnerable. First we need to download the results of the [shodan search used for the WSO2 targets](https://www.shodan.io/search?query=WSO2+port%3A9443%2C9763): just press the Download Results button and wait for the ```.json.gz``` file to be downloaded then unzip it using ```gzip -d <finding>.json.gz```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Taking the same previous CVE-2022-29464 as an example, we can use our shodan.io results to find if the targets found in the wild are vulnerable.
First, we need to download the results of the [shodan search used for the WSO2 targets](https://www.shodan.io/search?query=WSO2+port%3A9443%2C9763): just press the Download Results button and wait for the ```.json.gz``` file to be downloaded then unzip it using ```gzip -d <finding>.json.gz```
```

<img src="./assets/shodan_download.png" width=800 height=150>

<img src="./assets/shodan_download_2.png" width=800 height=150>

> Our main interests of the ```<finding>.json.gz``` are the IP:PORT fields of every resulted information of the target; so the first approach is to extract these two fields, using [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/) Linux utillitary - a sed for JSON data. Using the following command, we will have a list with an IP associated with a PORT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our main interests of the ```<finding>.json.gz``` are the IP:PORT fields of every resulted information of the target; so the first approach is to extract these two fields, using [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/) Linux utility - a sed for JSON data.
Using the following command, we will have a list with an IP associated with a PORT.
```

```cat <extracted_finding>.json | jq -r '. | "\(.ip_str):\(.port)"' && sed -i -e 's/^/https:\/\//' targets.txt```

#### Download data using the API

> Another approach is to use the shodan [API](https://help.shodan.io/guides/how-to-download-data-with-api), which helps you to download data. You can use the following commands to download the data:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another approach is to use the shodan [API](https://help.shodan.io/guides/how-to-download-data-with-api), which helps you to download data.
You can use the following commands to download the data:
```

```
shodan init <API_KEY>
shodan count WSO2 port:9443,9763
shodan download targets.json.gz WSO2 port:9443,9763 [--limit 1000]
gzip -d targets.json.gz
shodan parse targets.json --fields=ip_str,port > targets.txt
```

### Get nuclei in action

> Now, having the targets inside the ```targets.txt``` file, we can start using nuclei. The first step is to install the tool from the [public github page](https://github.com/projectdiscovery/nuclei). After the installation is completed, as we said, we will choose to scan targets vulnerable to the CVE-2022-29464, so we will download the specific [```CVE-2022-29464.yaml```](https://github.com/projectdiscovery/nuclei-templates/blob/master/cves/2022/CVE-2022-29464.yaml) file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, having the targets inside the ```targets.txt``` file, we can start using nuclei.
The first step is to install the tool from the [public github page](https://github.com/projectdiscovery/nuclei).
After the installation is completed, as we said, we will choose to scan targets vulnerable to the CVE-2022-29464, so we will download the specific [```CVE-2022-29464.yaml```](https://github.com/projectdiscovery/nuclei-templates/blob/master/cves/2022/CVE-2022-29464.yaml) file.
```

---
linkTitle: 10. End-to-End Attack
type: docs
weight: 10
---
# Introduction

There are multiple stages of a cyber attack: many of them contains five common stages used by a hacker to break into a system and also control it.

> In the last time, cyber-attacks to critical infrastructure are becoming more common, complex and creative.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the last time, cyber-attacks on critical infrastructure are becoming more common, complex and creative.
```

## Phase one: Reconnaissance and Research

> Also called the 'footprinting' stage, this phase consists of the research made by the attacker to obtain as much information as possible about the target.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also called the `footprinting` stage, this phase consists of the research made by the attacker to obtain as much information as possible about the target.
```

The main objective is to understand the technologies that the target is using, what types of mechanisms the target has in place, and also where the target is located.

### Passive Reconnaissance

This type of reconnaissance collects open source information without engaging the target directly.
Types of Information used:

+ Search Engine queries: Shodan, Google Dorks, Censys.io, PublicWWW, Zoomeye

+ Social Media: Twitter, Facebook and Linkedin (information about employees, their roles and daily habits)

+ WHOIS lookup: collect domain registration info and IP addresses

### Active Reconnaissance

This type of reconnaissance is used to collect information about the target network architecture, firewall, or intrusion detection software and is very useful to develop attack vectors and information about the operating system of the target or configurations.

> Mainly, the tool used are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mainly, the tools used are:
```

+ [nmap](https://nmap.org) - reveal how data flows through the network by mapping the topology of the various hosts, servers, routers,

+ [gobuster](https://github.com/OJ/gobuster) - bruteforce URLs, DNS subdomains, virtual host names

+ [wfuzz](https://github.com/xmendez/wfuzz) - bruteforce Web Applications, used to find resources like directories, servlets, scripts.

> It can also bruteforce GET and POST parameters for checking different kind of injections (SQL, XSS, etc)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It can also bruteforce GET and POST parameters for checking different kinds of injections (SQL, XSS, etc)
```

## Phase three: Gaining Access

The gaining access step could include an employee who fell into a phishing attack or it could be the attack based on a new vulnerability that appeared and is unpatched.
Also, an attacker could find some access pages like a login page on a website and starts to brute force the credentials.
This phase includes the sending of a malicious payload to the application through the network trying to trigger the vulnerability using buffer overflows attacks, injection attacks abusing components with known vulnerabilities.

## Phase four: Maintaining access

This involves the processes used to ensure the attacker can access the application for future use.
Once an attacker has access to a system, his objectives are to escalate privileges and maintain the access.
The ability to run privileged commands allows attackers to maintain their presence using a variety of methods:

+ Creating new user accounts

+ Editing firewall settings

+ Turning on remote desktop access (RDP)

+ Installing a backdoor via [rootkits](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rootkit)

## Phase five: Clearing Tracks

> This includes the step of by uninstalling the programs used during the attack and deleting any created folders, modifying the timestamps, deleting and modifying the logs files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This includes the step of uninstalling the programs used during the attack and deleting any created folders, modifying the timestamps, and deleting and modifying the log files.
```
